a nod and a joke for each of them. to his sisters also he said a few words, though rather in the tone of a drill sergeant to
a pair of recruits. it was only when the empress had joined him that his ill-humour came to a head. "i wish you would not wear those wisps
of pink about your head, josephine," said he, pettishly. "all that women have to think about is how to dress themselves, and yet they cannot even do that
with moderation or taste. if i see you again in such a thing i will thrust it in the fire as i did your shawl the other day."
"you are so hard to please, napoleon. you like one day what you cannot abide the next. but i will certainly change it if it offends you," said
josephine, with admirable patience. the emperor took a few steps between the people, who had formed a lane for us to pass through. then he stopped and looked
over his shoulder at the empress. "how often have i told you, josephine, that i cannot tolerate fat women." "i always bear it in mind, napolean." "then why
is madame de chevreux present?" " but surely, napoleon, madame is not very fat." " she is fatter than she should be. i should prefer not to see her. who
is this?" he had paused before a young lady in a blue dress, whose knees seemed to be giving way under her as the terrible emperor transfixed her
with his searching eyes. "this is mademoiselle de bergerot." "how old are you?" "twenty-three, sire." "it is time that you were married. every woman should be married at
twenty-three. how is it that you are not married?" the poor girl appeared to be incapable of answering, so the empress gently remarked that it was to the
young men that that question should be addressed. "oh, that is the difficulty, is it?" said the emperor. "we must look about and find a husband for you."
he turned, and to my horror i found his eyes fixed with a questioning gaze upon my face. "we have to find you a wife also, monsieur de
laval," said he. "well, well, we shall see -- we shall see. what is your name?" to a quiet refined man in black. "i am gretry, the musician."
'yes, yes, i remember you. i have seen you a hundred times, but i can never recall your name. who are you?" "iam joseph de chenier." "of
course. i have seen your tragedy. i have forgotten the name of it, but it was not good. you have written some other poetry, have you not?" "yes,
sire. i had your permission to dedicate my last volume to you." "very likely, but i have not had time to read it. it is a pity that
we have no poets now in france, for the deeds of the last few years would have given a subject for a homer or a virgil. it seems
that i can create kingdoms but not poets. whom do you consider to be the greatest french writer?" "racine, sire." "then you are a blockhead, for corneille was
infinitely greater. i have no ear for metre or trivialities of the kind, but i can sympathise with the spirit of poetry, and i am conscious that corneille
is far the greatest of poets. i would have made him my prime minister had he had the good fortune to live in my epoch. it is his
intellect which i admire, his knowledge of the human heart, and his profound feeling. are you writing anything at present?" "i am writing a tragedy upon henry iv,
sire." "it will not do, sir. it is too near the present day, and i will not have politics upon the stage. write a play about alexander. what 
is your name?" he had pitched upon the same person whom he had already addressed. "i am still gretry, the musician," said he meekly. the emperor flushed for
an instant at the implied rebuke. he said nothing, however, but passed on to where several ladies were standing togeher near the door of the card-room. "well, madame,"
said he to the nearest of them, "i hope you are behaving rather better. when last i heard from paris your doings were furnishing the quartier st. germain
with a good deal of amusement and gossip." "i beg that your majesty will explain what you mean," said she with spirit. "they had coupled you name with
that of colonel lasalle." "it is a foul calumny, sire." "very possibly, but it is awkward when so many calumnies cluster round one person. you are certainly a
most unfortunate lady in that respect. you had a scandal once before with general rapp s aide-de-camp. this must come to an end. what is your name?" he
continued, turning to another. "mademoiselle de perigord." "your age?" "twenty." "you are very thin and your elbows are red. my god, madame boismaison, are we never to see
anything but this same grey gown and the red turban with the diamond crescent?" "i have never worn it before, sire?" "then you had another the same,
